Chapter 1
Driving Licenses

Article 29 of Traffic Law No.19 of 2007 that:

Driving of any motor vehicle on the road shall take place
only after obtaining a license from the licensing
authority, entitling the holder to drive such a vehicle.

— TTIW

. Types of Driving Licenses

Driving licenses are classified in the State of Qatar
laccording to the following types:

1 Motorcycle Driving License

Authorizes its holder to drive a motorcycle with an
lengine capacity exceeding (50) cm3, moves with two
heels or more, and is not designed in the shape of car.




.2 Light Motor Vehicle Driving License

uthorizes its holder to drive different types of private
light motor vehicles, private transport vehicles of total

eight not exceeding (5 tons), and light buses with a
Ipassenger capacity not exceeding (25 passengers)

.3 Heavy Motor Vehicle Driving License
Bus
Authorizes its holder to drive buses with a passenger

capacity exceeding more than (25) passengers including
the driver.




Med. Truck

Authorizes its holder to drive motor vehicles of total
Weight that does not exceed (13 tons) and not less than
(5 tons), and buses with a capacity of more than (25)
passengers

railer

Authorizes its holder to drive heavy motor vehicles of
total weight exceeds (13 tons), in addition to driving
buses or med, trucks.

.4 Equipment Driving License

Forklift

Authorizes its holder to drive a forklift.



Loader (Bulldozer)

Authorizes it’s holder to drive loader and less equipment
ehicles, including (Automatic picker-Grader-Dumper-
Tractor) and similar light motor vehicles registered and
licensed by General Administration of Traffic.

Crane

Authorizes its holder to drive a crane and less equipment
ehicles including (Service crane- Telescopic crane-
Lights maintenance crane), and other similar motor
ehicles registered and licensed by General
Administration of Traffic.

Excavator




Authorizes its holder to drive excavator and less
equipment vehicles, including (Roller - Milling machine
 bulldozer"- Tracked crane - Launcher - Tracked
lexcavator), in addition to tracked light motor vehicles or
those move on iron tire, which are registered and
licensed by General Administration of Traffic

-5 Public Vehicles Driving License

Authorizes its holder to drive taxies, tourist vehicles
(Limousine), passenger vehicles, public transport vehicles
lor equipment or some of them,

.6 Handicaps Light Motor Vehicle Driving License



uthorizes its handicapped holder to drive a vehicle with
special specifications.

.7 Temporary Driving License for vehicles driving
learning. It includes the following types

ja. Motorcycle driving learning license.

lb. Light motor vehicle driving learning license.

Ic. Heavy motor vehicle driving learning license.

ld. Motor vehicles and equipment driving learning license

le. Handicaps special specifications vehicles driving
learning license.

2. Driving License Obligations

License must hold the license while driving, and to
show it to the police officers on demand.
The owner or the possessor of the vehicle is not




allowed to entrust its driving to a person who does not
hold a driving license entitling him to drive the vehicle

It is not allowed for anyone to get more than a driving
license of one type. It is not allowed also to use the
driving license or to permit others to use it in a manner
violating the law or for illegal benefit. It is not allowed to
ithe others or accept it in cases not prescribed by the
law.

In case of loss or damage of the driving license, the
holder has to inform the Traffic Department or one of its|
nearest branches. He may apply to the licensing
lauthority for lost or damaged replacement after the
payment of the prescribed fee. If the lost license was
ound, it should be returned to the licensing authority.

13. General Conditions for obtaining
driving licenses

13.1 Age Requirement to grant driving licenses for:

i. Motorcycle, light vehicle or handicaps, the applicant
should be attained the age of eighteen years

2. Heavy vehicle, motor vehicles, equipment or public
ehicle, the applicant age must be at least twenty-one
years

3. In all cases, the proof of age is by the birth certificate,
lofficial copy thereof or any evidence approved by
General Traffic Department.

13.2 Medical Fitness to grant driving licenses of any
type:




i. The medical fitness by the applicant must be proved by|
healthiness of vision and body. The healthiness of vision
is determined by eye-ground, vision power and
distinguishing of colors. The competent medical
jauthority in Ministry of Interior shall identify the diseases
land disabilities that prevent granting the driving license.
It shall also determine to the applicant to use eyeglasses
lor any other medical means to obtain the necessary
vision power, provided that the healthiness of eye-
ground.

2. Medical examination will be performed on the form
prepared by General Traffic Department fixed on it photo
lof the applicant who is required to be medically
examined. The examination will be performed by the
lauthority designated by Traffic Department. Blood group|
must be specified on the medical examination form and
lon the license

INOTE: Medical examination will be performed in the
following cases:

1. When applying for driving license of any type for the
first time

2. At the request of the Traffic Department for the
renewal of the driving license

3. If the General Traffic Department knows that license
holder has lost one of the conditions of medical fitness.



3.3 Passing Driving Tests

i. Theoretical Test: It will be in traffic rules, ethics, signs,
signals, basic principles of operation and method of use
lof vehicle and principles of first aid

2. Practical Test: In the light of the result of the
theoretical test and passing of the applicant, he will be
sent directly to the practical test. This will be done over
two stages

st Stage: Field Test (Inside Training Field)

This will be done by conducting practical driving test
inside training field to know the ability of applicant to
lexecute the specified exercises,

2nd Stage: Street Test

pplicant will be tested practically in the street and by
passing this test he will be granted a full driving license
in street test, the ability of applicant to perform the
following will be identified:




3.4 Fees Payment

After passing tests, designated fees should be paid to
obtain the license.

i. Start the engine.

2. Move the vehicle forward and backward.

3. Use of transmission stick shift (gear)

4. Normal and sudden stops on slops

5. Limping up the vehicle along the pavement, between
lother vehicles, on slops, between specified marks and

lines.

6. Get out of the route to another route, turning right
jand left.

7. Use the necessary signals at the appropriate time
When change the movement situations

Is. Commit with traffic signals, marks, lines and the
signals performed by the driver of the other vehicle and
Ithe range of attention and respond to traffic instructions
land orders

9. Crossing the crossroads, squares and roundabouts.
HO. Turning the vehicle in a limited space of the road

111. Familiarity with using vehicle lights, side and internal
mirrors



4. Producers for obtaining driving
licenses

4.1 Qataris and GCC Nationals

Two recent personal photos size (4cm x 6cm)

Copy of ID card (Personal ID card)

Medical examination form approved by the certified
doctor.

4.2 Residents and Visitors

Two recent personal photos size (4cm x 6cm)

Copy of applicant passport and residence permit or
personal ID card (or visa if he is a visitor)

Medical examination form approved by the certified
doctor.

No-objection letter from the sponsor or signature and
stamp of the sponsor on the form

Copy of company registration or copy of sponsor ID
card for personal sponsorships.




.3 Handicaps

Two recent personal photos size (4cm x 6cm)

Copy of personal ID card for Qataris and GCC
nationals, and copy of personal ID card for residents or
ithe residence stamped on the passport

Medical certificate specifying type of disability issued
from the competent medical body determined by Traffic
Department.

For non-Qataris, no-objection letter from the sponsor
lor signature and stamp of the sponsor on the form, and
icopy of company registration or copy of sponsor ID card
for personal sponsorships.

.4 International Driving Licenses

International driving license are valid in State of Qatar
held by the expats, tourists, visitors and passers-by,
issued in accordance with the Vienna Convention 1968,
or a period of their validity, without prejudice to the
purpose of tourism, visit or transit. Their holders are
jallowed to drive vehicles licensed by those licenses to be
driven only. Renewal of the license, while the license
holder is in Qatar, is not valid.




Provisions of international, regional and bilateral
lagreements are applicable to driving licenses that are
subject to provisions of international, regional or
bilateral agreements to which the State is a party. It is
lallowed to residents of GCC of Gulf Arab States to drive in
State of Qatar with the driving licenses issued from the
state of residence provided that they are valid

4.5 Visitors and Tourists

The General Traffic Department may allow visitors and
tourists who hold non-Qatari driving licenses, to drive the
Vehicles according to the following conditions

IA. To visit the Traffic Department within fifteen days
from date of entry to State of Qatar to approve the
license.

8. Non-violation of the purpose of visit or tourism

IC. The license is valid

5. Validity and Renewal of Driving
Licenses

5.1 Renewal of Driving licenses

Driving licenses must be renewed no later than 30 days
Following it’s date of expiry. It is not allowed to drive the
Vehicle on the road without renewal of the driving
license.

5.2 Validity of Driving Licenses



Validity of the driving licenses of all kinds is 10 years for
Qataris from date of issuance, and 5 years for non-
Qataris, (excluding public driving license, which is one

ear from date of issuance and temporary driving
licenses which is three months from date of issuance),
renewed for similar period after the payment of the
designated fees.



